This is the second section of using Vuex.
And we're gonna talk a little bit more in
depth about the different pieces of Vuex.
So, we touched a little bit about state,
actions, and
mutations which are really great.
We didn't touch getters yet,
but we will in this part.
We'll actually dive more into detail as to
the different pieces of how you use them.
And we're also gonna
distinguish actions and
mutations a little bit in
this particular section.
So, let's dive in.
So, I like to call this,
Responsibilities and
state management systems because
every piece has responsibilities.
State is where
the centralized state exists.
Actions are where you make the database
calls, you fetch from API's.
Mutations are where the state
is actually mutated.
And then, getters is sort of this
sense of checking over the state or
updating how the state
renders on the front end.
So, we'll look at the diagram again,
because I think it's useful to use as a
way of cementing your understanding of UX.
So again, we have our actions, we have
our mutations, and we have our state and
this flow of how things work.
So, the component actually never
changes the state directly.
It's the store that changes the state and
specifically the mutation
that changes the state.
And we'll talk a little bit about that
piece of like the dispatch of the action
in the mutation itself because I
think it's useful to understand those
two pieces.
The difference again is a bit kooky,
but bear with me a little.
So, we have actions which are similar to
mutations, but it commits those mutations.
So, the action never actually
changes the state directly.
The mutation is where
the state is changed.
And I want you to look a little about and
think about them as this asynchronous or
synchronous.
So, actions are asynchronous because
you can't make those fetches.
You can't make those database calls and
the mutations you can't do that
because it is strictly synchronous.
So, that's a really good way of thinking
about the two in distinguishing how
they work.
So, we'll go back to our previous example
of our stock counter except now we have
this sort of in between state.
So, when you're dispensing previously,
we just counted, we just sort of
decrement and then incremented up
to 40 to restock and dispense.
But now, we have this concept
of like is dispensing state.
So, you see this transition state
that happens and then it decrements.
So that's sort of an extra layer of
how the state is changing within
an application.
So, you have an action that happens and
then a mutation.
And the reason I added the in between
state is because I wanted to show you that
asynchronous action that happens.
So, just to return to this example,
you might notice.
I know you were very like enthralled
with animation because I was,
when you're dispensing notice that
the counter doesn't go down and
it only goes down after
the animation finishes.
And so, this is sort of a way of modeling
asynchronous actions because obviously,
we're not me really fetching from an API
or making an actual call to a database.
But I wanted to show you that an action is
asynchronous and mutation is synchronous.
So, the action which is when you click the
button, so you restock or you dispense.
It's happening asynchronously,
because the idea is that you
are doing something asynchronous.
And so, I create a timeout, which is,
again, modelling an asynchronous thing.
And so, when you click Action,
that action happens asynchronously and
then once the action finishes, or once the
async returns, then the mutation happens.
So, there are these two things and
how they interact.
So, it's no longer one-to-one or like it's
no longer you ask an action to happen and
automatically a mutation is committed.
It's sort of async and then sync.
So, let's look at how that looks like.
And for the very first, as we go
through this, we're going to start
renaming things because I think it
will help in terms of distinguishing.
So, actions and
mutations previously were called restock.
And that's mainly because there was not
much difference besides the fact that one
was actually touching state and
one wasn't.
But now, we're doing a bit more work here,
so let's rename it.
So, our action is called
fetchFromInventory, because the idea here
is that the action is actually checking
inventory to be like, can I do this thing?
Does it exist in the inventory to restock?
And then,
the mutation is called stock items,
which is the actual action
of adding to the stock.
And so, we'll rename those two things,
just so
it's a bit more clear that
those two things are separate.
And obviously, we also want to change what
exactly is happening within the action and
the mutation.
So, the action is fetching
from the inventory and
then the mutation is updating the supply.
And of course, it's not much different
in terms of the context.commit.
So, it takes in a default parameter and
then it commits the particular
mutation that is not much different.
But you might notice I created some
comments which is make API call and
on successful return, mutate,
which is the asynchronous piece
of what that will look like.
And we'll go into that in just a bit.
But again, I just wanted to show you that
the code isn't actually a lot different
from what we looked at before in
terms of what the component sees.
So, from the component's
perspective on line 30,
you'll see that it should be this store,
$store not store.
This store, $store.dispatch is still
dispatching that particular action.
So, that action is called
fetchFromInventory.
So, this store $store.dispatch will
dispatch that particular action, so
from the component perspective,
nothing changed.
It's just within the action,
the mutation that we're making changes.
So just for clarity,
we're looking at action mutation,
it's related but
independent from the component for now.
So, what we'll look at is we'll look
at specifically what we're doing.
And for this, I'm gonna create, as I
mentioned, a timeout like a set timeout,
just to model an API call
because I think it's easier than
actually making an API call.
It gives you sort of similar results.
And so for this,
I'm going to fake out an API.
So, I created a fake inventory, which has
chips in it, and it has a stock of 40.
So, that's just my fake inventory and then
I created a method called pingInventory.
You can call it fetch inventory,
whatever you like.
PingInventories fine and
then within it, it's just a promise.
It returns a promise.
And within that promise, there's a set
timeout for three seconds or 3,000
milliseconds, and then it successfully
resolves the particular inventory item.
So again, in this instance,
we're not doing anything
besides just resolving
what we expect to see and
that is not the store itself.
That's just separate because I
wanted to create a fake API,
[LAUGH] that's sort of
outside of the store.
So, you might notice that it's
not within the store at all.
It's just sort of separate, and
then we'll look at the actions itself.
So, how does this relate
to the specific action.
So, from line 22 to 25, that's when
I'm actually calling this fake API.
And of course,
this fake API takes in a specific item,
which in this case is chips.
And so, I'm pinging an inventory for
chips specifically, and
then I am grabbing that thing, and
then I'm passing it to the mutation.
So, there's a bit of things.
There's a lot of things happening here,
one is on line 22.
We're actually pinging and asking for
data from this specific API.
So, pingInventory which is our API,
and then on successful return,
we're grabbing the item
that's returned from the API.
Because obviously, if you're fetching
an API, you might want the return value,
otherwise, why would you call an API.
And then,
we want to pass that down to the mutation.
And so, again, you will see
the context.commit, which is again,
the default parameter context
was committing to the mutation.
In this case,
the mutation is called stockItems.
But you'll see a difference here, which is
previously we just did context.commit with
the name of the mutation.
But here, we have a second parameter and
the second parameter is the specific
returned value from the API.
So inventory.stock,
which if you look at lines 1 to 6,
which is what is the return
value from our API.
Inventory.stock is just 40,
so it gives you a number.
And so, we care about that specific
number because in this case,
we don't really care about anything else.
We just wanna stock it
to a specific number.
And so, what we'll do now is we will
look at how that looks like from
the mutation perspective.
So, we looked at the action and
how we're exactly calling an API and
then passing that data down.
And then,
next we'll look at the mutation itself.